
# How to Improve Your Search Engine Ranking on Google

Optimising Your Website so that it ranks higher in Google's search
engine results

Background: Google's Page Ranking Algorithm As many of you are probably
already aware, Google ranks a page according to the number and quality
of links leading to that page. For example, if your page has 100 quality
links leading to it, it will rank higher than another page that has only
20 links pointing at it. Quality links come from pages that are
themselves "important" (Google's own terminology).

Note that this is not a secret. Google actually publishes information
about their ranking algorithm on their website. You can read it for
yourself at http://www.google.com/technology/.

Improving Your Page Rank on Google

There are numerous tips floating around in webmaster circles about how
to improve your ranking in search engine results on Google.

### Get Those Inbound Links

Since Google ranks your pages according to the number of links pointing
at your page, it stands to reason that you should try to get as many
links pointing at your pages as possible. This is so obvious that I'm
only mentioning it for completeness sake.

### Your Title Tag

> Google seems to *give weight to the title of your page*. By title, I
mean the text that is sandwiched between the HTML `<TITLE>` tags in the
`<HEAD>` section of your web page. If you use a web editor that
automatically inserts a title like `"New Page"`, remember to change it
to some meaningful text with your keywords inside to reap the benefit of
this feature.

Dit doen wij door de titel te genereren uit de Docpad meta-data die we
in de documenten geplaatst hebben samen te voegen met de site titel.


Content-Laden Pages (Keyword Density)

It has often been observed that Google considers keyword density a large
factor in ranking pages in search engine results, more so than many
other search engines. You can read more about keyword density and how
you can improve it on your pages from my other article, Improving Your
Keyword Density for Search Engine Positioning, at
http://www.thesitewizard.com/archive/keyworddensity.shtml

Keyword-laden Links?

According to a paper published by one of Google's founders, if the links
pointing to your page has the relevant keyword text in them, it will
cause your page to be ranked higher in search engine results. For
example, a link with the text "Cheap Shoe Store" pointing at your site
will cause your site to be listed earlier if a visitor searches for
"cheap shoe store" than if the link simply said "click here". You can
find a copy of the paper online at The Anatomy of a Large-Scale
Hypertextual Web Search Engine.

**oct 2008**